#  Project Goal:The goal of this project is to cluster NFL teams to find similarities between teams in order to achieve two goals. The first is to help NFL teams find teams similar to both themselves and their opponents, so that they can find ways to improve their strategy, both to improve themselves, and to find ways to attack opponents. The second is to help media outlets get more traffic by providing fans with a data driven way of evaluating current teams, by showing similar historical teams to put things into context.# Project Summary:I use KMeans to perform the clustering for this project. I scale the data with StandardScaler, and I use PCA for dimension reduction. The final result is 3 clusters that, while provide meaningful insights and show 3 clearly distinct types of teams, fall short of the overall goals of the project. It serves as a good starting point for further analysis. # Summary of Data:For this project, all data comes from Pro Football Reference. I use the Total Offense and Total Defense tables from their respective pages for all the teams between the seasons of 2002 (when the 32nd and final NFL team joined the league) and 2020. Because the 2020 season is not finished, I take per game stats from each season instead of the raw total stats. Each table is technically 35x28, but the final 3 rows are meaningless to this project, so only the first 32 rows (corresponding to each NFL team for that season) are used.# Summary of Files:## Notebooks:Technical Notebook:The technical notebook, containing the report of the project.Model BuildingThe notebook used to make the models used for this project.## utils.py:A file containing scripts for use with the project.## Data:A folder containing the data used for the project. The data consists of offensive and defensive stats for each team between the years of 2002 and 2020. All data comes from Pro Football Reference. An example of the offensive data can be found [here](https://www.pro-football-reference.com/years/2020/index.htm), and an example of the defensive data can be found [here](https://www.pro-football-reference.com/years/2020/index.htm). Total Offense and Total Defense are the tables used, and toggle per game stats.## Visualizations:A folder containing the visualizations used in the technical notebook.# Required Packages:For this project, I use sys, yellowbrick, and pandas in my model building notebook, as well as my own utils file, which in turn uses os, pandas, matplotlib, numpy, KElbowVisualizer, KMeans, StandardScaler, and PCA.